# Being Reimu

It's a little after 7 A.M. on the morning of Saturday the 25th of October.
Leicester is still, cold, cloudless and a little misty, although the sun is
rapidly burning it off. A man on his morning walk sees us approaching on the
pavement and considers us for a moment. Shortly, he comes to his conclusion and
knowingly asks, “Good night, lads?”

A man in a high-visibility jacket standing atop a university building looks
down and sees us walking by. He puts his fingers in his mouth and wolf-whistles
at us. “Hey, ladies!” then, to his friend, “there's two lads…”

[Cirno][okand] and I are heading to [MCM][mcm] (a nerd convention in London),
but we've a long way to go and we're pretty conspicuous.

[okand]: https://twitter.com/okand
[mcm]: http://www.mcmcomiccon.com/london/

[![These dorks](dorks.jpg)](https://twitter.com/EuricaeriS/status/526113599534936064)

We're white dudes. We know that when we get home we can take the costumes off
and revert to our usual, privileged state. It doesn't hurt that we are not
wearing makeup and these particular costumes make it clear even to people who
don't recognise the characters that we are very much still white dudes. Still,
we are drawing attention to gender in a way that takes people out of their
comfort zones, but because we are not *us*, we can view their reactions with
detachment.

Reactions are varied, fascinating, and occasionally frightening. Some
compliment us with slightly sneering irony. Some complement us with sincerity.
Some children ‘whisper’ to their parents as we pass (“whoah-ha-ha-ha… that's a
man…”), some parents approach us with their kids and ask with genuine interest
what we're dressed up for. The train conductor tells us we're pretty and the
next people he deals with ask why they don't get the same treatment. Everybody
laughs.

At MCM itself, we are barely an anomaly. Lots of people are in costumes. People
are relaxed. Many ask for photos. One guy calls “Reimu!” and quickly looks in
the other direction, too nonchalantly. A few apparent first-time visitors are
more surprised; one woman remarks “That's a boy! Dressed as a girl!
*Shocking*.”

While waiting for [Marisa][yirba] to show up, a man who is “here with [his]
nephew” approaches us and speaks for a while and asks some mostly innocuous
questions, but he seems to be dancing around saying what he actually wants to
say. It is like he is either trying to prove that he is Totally Cool With This
or is trying to decide if he even wants to be here at all. We humour him.

[yirba]: http://sachcell.tumblr.com/post/100990329767/i-think-this-is-my-fav-photo-from-today-omg-hope

The man who takes our order at dinner gets super into the spirit of it, asking
who we are and complementing us. After taking our orders, he calls us ‘girls’
and then immediately fears he has crossed a line and gets sheepish and
apologetic and quickly scampers off. I later try to communicate to him that we
are more than okay with being referred to in character, but I mess up and
probably make it worse. (If you're reading this, I'm sorry. We're cool.)

----

Disembarking from a London Underground train, we meet *That Guy*. That Guy is
heading home from his Important Job. That Guy is white and middle-aged. That
Guy is boarding the train at the door we are leaving from. That Guy does not
have long before we will be out of his life forever, but That Guy very much
wants us to know that He Has Feelings About This.

“Psh,” he snorts with powerful indignation. “I *hope* that's fancy
dress.”

Firstly, yes, of course it's fancy dress. These are not practical clothes. I'm
carrying a piece of dowel with strips of paper taped to the end and my friend
here has wire fairy wings on his back. We are having a bit of fun.

Secondly, though, and more importantly, *what the fuck does it matter to you,
Guy*? And why did you feel the need to let us and the our fellow passengers
know of your disapproval? Are we a sign of the coming apocalypse? An invitation
for Satan to bring about babies having babies and cats living with dogs? Shit,
man, people might even find themselves attracted to us, and that wouldn't be
*right*, dammit!

----

On the train back to Leicester, we are approached at our seats by a smiling
woman. “I saw you earlier on the train into London,” she says, “*you look
exactly the same*. Have you had fun?”

We appreciate the curiosity and chat for a bit.

I found her opening remark especially interesting not because of anything to do
with our costume or any kind of maliciousness on her part, but because that
middle part was just a thought that she had had. It was not intended for us.
Something weird was happening, and she dropped her guard for a moment. She said
something that made  no sense except as part of an inner monologue in which she
was trying to work out if we were the same people she saw earlier or not. It's
scary that that can happen.

----

The sun has long since set when we get back to Leicester. People have started
their evening of drinking and the roads are still busy. We are honked at a few
times, a near-toothless man walking out of a pub blesses us, and my pulse
doubles every time we have to walk past a man. The vast majority of
interactions we have are positive, but I can't shake the fear of [how upset
people can get about Gender Stuff][upset]. It was fun, but I am glad to get the
costume off.

[upset]: http://www.patheos.com/blogs/wwjtd/2012/05/murder-statistics-of-transgender-people/

I'm lucky that I can.
